DOCS-8625-WSC-studio-edits-kt (#925)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: web-service-consumer/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/edits/web-service-consumer-studio.adoc

= Use Studio to Configure Web Service Consumer 1.6 - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::web-service/web-service-consumer-consume.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.

> . <<add-connector-operation,Add Consume operation to the flow>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<add-connector-operation,Add the Consume operation to the flow>>.
```

. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

> . <<configure-other-fields,Configure Consume operation>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the Consume operation>>.
```

> If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:web-service-consumer-reference.adoc[Web Service Consumer Reference].

Reviewer: Valkyrie and I talked about this and decided to revise it to name the other topics but not link to them, moving the links to See Also at the end. The template should be updated but has not been yet:
```suggestion
If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see Use Studio to Configure a Connector. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see Web Service Consumer Connector Reference.
```

Reviewer: You can check in with your team about this if you like; I have edited Diane's recent work similarly.

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Web Service Consumer Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `web service consumer` in the search field.

> . Click *Web Service Consumer* in *Available modules*.

Reviewer: Is "modules" lowercase in the UI?

. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.

For example, to configure `HTTP Listener`, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP* > *Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]

> == Add Consume Operation to the Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Add the Consume Operation to the Flow
```

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

> To add the Consume operation for Web Service Consumer Connector, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the Consume operation to Web Service Consumer Connector, follow these steps:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Web Service Consumer* and then select the *Consume* operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

In Studio, the Consume operation looks like this:

.Web Service Consume Operation in Studio
image::web-service-consumer-consume-operation.png[Web Service Consume Operation in Studio]

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

> When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. To consume a SOAP Web service operation, you need to create a configuration that points to the service that you want to consume.

Reviewer: Web > web GLOBALLY, unless part of a proper noun.
The industry has standardized to "web" now instead of (World Wide) Web.

To configure the global element for Web Service Consumer Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the *Basic Settings* section of the *General* tab, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.

> . On the *Connection* section of the *General* tab, configure the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* section of the *General* tab, configure the following parameters:
```

* *WSDL location* +

> The WSDL file URL remote or local.

Reviewer: DITTO rewording suggested in #923 
Also, remove periods, because these are not sentences.

* *Service* +
The service name.
* *Port* +
The port name.
* *Address* +

> The address of the web server to dispatch requests but if the *Service* and *Port* parameters don't auto-populate the web server address, you must manually provide the correct *Address*.

Reviewer: DITTO #923

> Note that *WSDL location*, *Service*, and *Port* parameters are mandatory for the configuration to be valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the *WSDL location*, *Service*, and *Port* parameters are mandatory for the configuration to be valid.
```

> The following example shows how to configure the Global Element to get a list of flights by airline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure the global element to get a list of flights by airline:
```

Reviewer: This is lowercased above, but I see that the term presentation list makes a distinction between **a** global element and **the** Mule Global Element...and I wonder if it should? Maybe I need to correct the term list? What do you think?

.Web Service Consumer Global Element
image::web-service-consumer-global-element.png[Web Service Consumer Global Element]

In the *Configuration XML* tab, the XML looks like this:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:config name="wsc">
  <wsc:connection
   wsdlLocation="http://ilt.mulesoft-training.com/essentials/delta?wsdl"
   service="TicketServiceService"
   port="TicketServicePort"/>
</wsc:config>
----

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Consume Operation

> After you configure a global element for Web Service Consumer Connector, configure the Consume operation parameters, such as Operation, Message (Body, Headers, Attachments) and so on. Additionally, learn about the output of the Consume operation and metadata attributes used to dispatch messages.

Reviewer: ditto "a global element" per questions above

Reviewer: Should the parameters be formatted as syntax ` `?

=== Parameters

The Consume operation has two main parameters:

* *Operation* +

> Defines which SOAP operation of the Web service to invoke. In design time, the parameter defines the input and output types for the Consume operation. The types will change depending on which operation you choose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defines which SOAP operation of the web service to invoke. During the design phase, the parameter defines the input and output types for the Consume operation. The types change depending on which operation you choose.
```

* *Message* +

> A representation of the `SOAP:ENVELOP` composed of three optional parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A representation of `SOAP:ENVELOP` composed of three optional parameters:
```

** *Body* +
The XML body to include in the SOAP message, with all the required parameters, or `null` if no parameters are required
** *Headers* +
The XML headers to include in the SOAP message
** *Attachments* +
The attachments to include in the SOAP request

To configure these parameters for the Consume operation, follow these steps: +

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.

> . On the *General* section of the Consume operation, define *Operation*, and in the *Message* section, define *Body*, *Headers* and *Attachments* fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* section of the Consume operation, define *Operation*, and in the *Message* section, define *Body*, *Headers*, and *Attachments* fields:
```

.Configure Consume Operation
image::web-service-consumer-configure-consume.png[Configure Consume Operation]

In the *Configuration XML* tab, a basic configuration for the Consume operation looks like this:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

==== Body Parameter

> The `body` parameter is the main part of the SOAP message, and accepts embedded DataWeave scripts values so expects that you can construct the XML request without having a side effect on the message or having to use multiple components to create the request. Some characteristics: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `body` parameter is the main part of the SOAP message. It accepts embedded DataWeave script values so that you can construct the XML request without having affecting the message or having to use multiple components to create the request. Some characteristics of the parameter include: +
```

> * The default value is `#[payload]`, and expects that the incoming payload is the XML entity ready to ship to the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The default value is `#[payload]`, based on the assumption that the incoming payload is the XML entity ready to ship to the service.
```

* If the body is not valid XML, or if the request cannot be created for some reason, you get a `WSC:BAD_REQUEST` error.

> * If you don't provide body content, the Web Service Consumer Connector attempts to generate one, and this works only for cases where no XML entity is expected in the body.

Reviewer: I don't understand this progression:
1. You don't provide content
2. Connector tries to generate one
3. "this works only for cases where no XML entity is expected in the body"

So...Step 2 fails if the body is expected to contain an XML entity, or the connector does not even attempt Step 2?

> * Some web services require to append the XML Prolog tag into the envelope's body XML content, which contains the version and encoding information that identifies the document as being XML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some web services require an XML prolog tag containing the version and encoding information that identifies the document as being XML at the end of the envelope's body XML content.
```

> The following example shows a DataWeave expression inside the `body` parameter, and how to force the Web Service Connector to dispatch any payload by enabling the XML Prolog option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a DataWeave expression inside the `body` parameter, and how to force the Web Service Consumer Connector to dispatch any payload by enabling the XML prolog option:
```

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the *Body* parameter field of the *General* tab, add the DataWeave expression.
. In the *Message Customization* section of the *Advanced* tab, enable the option *Force XML Prolog into body* like this:

.Configure XML Prolog into Body
image::web-service-consumer-xmlprolog.png[Configure XML Prolog into Body]

In the *Configuration XML* tab, the XML looks like this:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>
        #[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/xml
        ns con http://service.soap.clients.namespace/
        ---
        con#clients: {
            client: {
                name: "admin1",
                lastname: "textpassword1"
            },
            client: {
                name: "admin2",
                lastname: "textpassword2"
            }
        }]
        </wsc:body>
    </wsc:message>
    <wsc:message-customizations forceXMLProlog="true" />
</wsc:consume>
----

==== Headers Parameter

> The `headers` parameter contains application-specific information about the SOAP message, such as authentication, payment, and so on. The parameter is an XML entity, and accepts embedded DataWeave script as its value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `headers` parameter contains application-specific information about the SOAP message, such as authentication, payment, and so on. The parameter is an XML entity that accepts an embedded DataWeave script as its value.
```

The following XML example shows a DataWeave expression inside the `headers` parameter:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
        <wsc:headers>
          #[
          %dw 2.0
          output application/xml
          ns con http://service.soap.clients.namespace/
          ---
          "headers": {
              con#user: "admin",
              con#pass: "textpassword"
          }]
        </wsc:header>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

==== Attachments Parameter

> The `attachments` parameter enables you to bind attachments to the SOAP message. To create attachments for transport over SOAP, declare a DataWeave script in which each entry represents an attachment, and the entry value provides the content of the attachment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `attachments` parameter enables you to bind attachments to the SOAP message. To create attachments for transport over SOAP, declare a DataWeave script in which each entry represents an attachment and the entry value provides the content of the attachment.
```

> The following XML example shows a DataWeave expression inside the `attachments` parameter that declares a new attachment called `clientsJson`. The attachment value content is stored in the `jsonFile` variable. This variable could be set from a `file:read` operation:

Reviewer: "could" > "can" or "might have been"?

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
        <wsc:attachments>
          #[{ clientsJson: vars.jsonFile } ]
        </wsc:attachments>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

=== Output

> The output of the Consume operation represents an incoming SOAP message that contains the same elements that the Message parameter has, and you can access each part of it.

Reviewer: `Message` parameter? syntax format?

The following XML example stores:

* The content of the body in a `soap.body` variable
* The content of the header called `auth` in a `soap.auth.header` variable
* The content of an attachment called `json` in a `soap.attachment.json` variable

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="output">
  <wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
      <wsc:message>
          <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
      </wsc:message>
  </wsc:consume>
  <set-variable name="soap.body" value="#[payload.body]">
  <set-variable name="soap.auth.header" value="#[payload.headers.auth]">
  <set-variable name="soap.attachment.json" value="#[payload.attachments.json]">
</flow>
----

=== Attributes

> When consuming a Web service operation, you might be interested not only in the response content but also in the metadata of the underlying transport used to dispatch the messages. For example, when you use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your app consumes a web service operation, you might be interested not only in the response content but also in the metadata of the underlying transport used to dispatch the messages. For example, when you use
```
"you" don't consume the operation; is it your app that does?

> HTTP, attributes carry HTTP headers bounded to the HTTP request (`content-length`, `status`, and so on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP, attributes carry HTTP headers bound to the HTTP request (`content-length`, `status`, and so on).
```

> The Web Service Consumer Connector uses Mule Message Attributes to access this information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web Service Consumer Connector uses Mule message attributes to access this information.
```

== Next Step

> After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector. See xref:web-service-consumer-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you configure a global element and provide connection information, configure the other fields for the connector. See Additional Configuration Information for more configuration steps.
```
...although I would like to see the template change the wording of this subtopic title going forward....

Reviewer: You can move the link to See Also.
